### A Friend Request
### Kate and Greg — Elevator Talk
- Hi.
- Kate
- Good morning.
- I’m sorry, what’s your name?
- Oh, I’m Kate.
- I’m Greg, nice to meet you.
- Nice to meet you too. Where are you from?
- From New York, and you’re from Russia, right?
- That’s right.
- Umm, I like your mug.
- Thank you! I love jazz.
- How can Greg say the following sentence in English?
- I play the saxophone.
- I play the guitar.
- He plays the drums.
- They play the flute.
- Really? Me too! I play the saxophone.
- 
- Wow! That’s cool... Umm, by the way, what do you do here?
- Oh, I’m an accountant. And you?
- I’m an intern in the marketing department. Oh, this is my floor. Have a good day. Goodbye!
- You too. Bye!
- 
- Match the sentences to their translation.
- Have a good day!	
- Nice to meet you!	
- You too. Bye!	
- 
- What do you do?
- Where are you from?
- What’s your name?
- 
- 
### Kate and Jamie
- Oh my gosh!
- What?
- It’s a friend request from Greg!
- Who’s Greg?
- The guy I really like!
- Oh, that Greg! How old is he?
- Umm, let me check. He’s 32. And his birthday’s tomorrow! I need to buy him a present! But what?
- Check his profile. I’m sure you can find something.
- Good idea!
- 
- 
### A Silly Mistake
- Hi, Greg!
- Oh, hi, Kate.
- How are you?
- Umm, I’m okay, I guess.
- Congrats on your birthday!
- Happy birthday!
- Have a wonderful Birthday! Happy Birthday! Enjoy your day!
- Happy birthday! This is for you!
- What? It’s not my birthday today.
- No?! What do you mean?
- Выберите правильный ответ
- When is Greg’s birthday?
- April 3, 1988
- 
- I’m so silly.
- Help Kate complete the sentence.
- He feels angry
- He feels happy
- On the third of April. So let’s say it’s an early birthday present? What is it?
- Oh, just a little present... Open it!
- I love it! Thank you so much! Umm, do you want to have coffee with me?
- Yes! I love coffee.
