### Introduction to Data Analysis

Welcome to our data analysis with python tutorial. My name is Santiago and I will be your instructor this is a joint initiative between free code camp and remoter. In this tutorial we'll explore the capabilities of Python and the entire PI data stack to perform data analysis. We'll learn how to read data from multiple sources such as databases CSV and Excel files how to clean and transform it by applying statistical functions and how to create beautiful visualizations will show you all the important tools of the PI data stack painless mapper Lib c1 and many others this tutorial is going to be useful both for Python beginners that want to learn how to manage data with Python and also traditional data analysts coming from excel tableau etc. You'll learn how programming can power up your day-to-day analysis. So let's get started. 

Let's quickly review the contents of this tutorial. This is the first section and we are going to discuss what is data analysis will also talk about data analysis with Python. And why programming tools like Python sequel and pandas are important. In the following section we'll show you a real example of data analysis using Python. So you can see the power of it will not explain the tools in detail. It's just a quick demonstration for you to understand what this tutorial is about. 

The following sections will be the ones explaining each tool in detail. There are two more sections that I want to specially point out the first one is section number 3 Jupiter tutorial this is not mandatory and you can skip it if you already know how to use Jupiter notebooks also the last section Python in under 10 minutes this is just a recap of Python if you are coming from other languages you might want to take this first if that's the case. 

All right now let's define what is data analysis. I think the Wikipedia article summarizes perfectly the process of inspecting cleansing transforming and modeling data with the goal of discovering useful information informing conclusions and support decision-making. Let's analyze this definition piece by piece. The first part of the process of data analysis is usually tedious it starts by gathering the data cleaning it and transforming it for further analysis this is where PI then and the PID that holes Excel we're going to be using painless to read clean and transform. 

Our data modeling data means adapting real-life scenarios to information systems using inferential statistics to see if any pattern or model arise for this we are going to be using the statistical analysis features of painless and visualizations format live and see one once we process the data and created models out of it. We'll try to drive conclusions from it finding interesting patters or anomalies that may arise the word information here is key we're trying to transform data into information our data may be a huge list of all the purchases made in Walmart in the last year. 

The information will be something like pop-tarts sell better on Tuesdays. This is the final objective of data analysis we need to provide evidence of our findings create readable reports and dashboards and aid other departments with the information. 

We've gathered multiple actors will use your analysis marketing sales accounting executives etc. They might need to see a different view of the same information they might all need different reports or level of detail. 

What tools are available today for data analysis. We've broken these down into two main categories our manage tools are closed products tools you can buy and start using right out-of-the-box Excel is a good example. Tablo and lucre are probably the most popular ones for data analysis. In the other extreme we have what we call programming languages or we could call them open tools these are not sold by an individual vendor but they are a combination of languages open-source libraries and products python r and julia are the most popular ones in this category.


### Introduction to Data Analysis

Let's explore the advantages and disadvantages of them. The main advantage of closed tools like tableau or Excel is that they are generally easy to learn. There is a company writing documentation providing support and driving the creation of the product. The biggest disadvantage is that the scope of the tool is limited. You can't cross the boundaries of it in contrast using Python and the universe of Pi data tools gives you amazing flexibility do you need to read data from a closed API using secret key authentication for example you can do it. Do you need to consume data directly from AWS kinases you can do it. 

A programming language is the most powerful tool. You can learn another important advantage is a general scope of a programming language. What happens if the table for example goes out of business or if you just get bored from it and feel like your career stopped. You need a career change learning how to process data using a programming language gives you freedom. The main disadvantage of a programming language is that it's not as simple to.


