
### Conclusion

So finally after about seven hours of course content we have reached the conclusion of this course now what I'm gonna do in this last brief short section is just explain to you where you can go for some next steps and some further learning with tensorflow and machine learning artificial intelligence in general. Now what I'm gonna be recommending to you guys is that we look at the tensorflow website because they have some amazing guides and resources on here and in fact a lot of the examples that we used in our notebooks were based off of or exactly the same as the original tensorflow guide. 

And that's because the code that they have is just very good they're very good and easy to understand examples and in terms of learning I find that these guides are great for people that want to get in quickly see the examples and then go and do some research on their own time and understand why they work. 

So if you're looking for some further steps at this point in time you have gained a very general and broad knowledge of machine learning and AI you have some basic skills in a lot of the different areas and hopefully this has introduced you to a bunch of different concepts and the possibilities of what you are able to do using modules like tensor flow. Now what I'm gonna suggest to all of you is that if you find a specific area of machine learning AI. That you are very interested in that you would dial in on that area and focus most of your time into learning that. That is because when you get to a point in machine learning in AI. 

Where you really get specific and pick one kind of strain or one kind  of area it gets very interesting very quickly and you can devote most of your time to getting as deep as possible in that specific topic. And that's something that's really cool and most people that are experts in AI or machine learning field typically have one area of specialization. Now if you're someone who doesn't care to specialize in area or you just want to play around and see some different things the tensorflow. Website is great to really get kind of a general introduction to a lot of different areas and be able to kind of use this code tweak it a little bit on your own and implement it into your own projects and in fact the next kind of steps and resources. I'm gonna be showing you here and involve simply going to the ten circle website going to the tutorial page this is very easy to find. 

I don't even need to link it you can just search tensorflow and you'll find this online and looking at some more advanced topics that we haven't covered so we've covered a few of the topics and tutorials that are here. I've just kind of modified their version and thrown out in the notebook and explained it in words and video content but if you'd like to move on to say a next step or something very cool something. I would recommend is doing the deep dream in the generic genera t'v neural network section on the tensorflow website being able to make something like this. 

I think is very cool and this is an example where you can tweak this a ton by yourself and get some really cool results so some things like this are definitely next steps there's tons and tons of guides and tutorials on this website they make it very easy for anyone to get started and with these guides. 

What I will say is typically what will end up happening is they just give you the code and brief explanations of why things work you should really be researching and looking up some more. You know deep level explanations of why some of these things work as you go through if you want to have a firm and great understanding of why the model performs the way that it does so with that being said. I believe I'm going to wrap up the course now I know you guys can imagine how much work I put into this so please do leave a like subscribe to the channel leave a content show your support this. 

I believe is the largest open source machine learning course in the world that deals completely with tensorflow and Python. And I hope that this gave you a lot of knowledge so please do give me your feedback down below in the comments with that being said again. I hope you enjoyed and I hopefully I will see you again in another tutorial guide or series.
