[Разговорный английский 16](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZmUm29fc6nI&list=RDCMUCVXM96yuiXY3ZT73Dy8HgCA&index=1)     


   
would you like a drink, sir    
yes, Diet Coke, please    
Ice and lemon    
just lemon   
here you are   
thank you    
coffee tea    
coffee, please   
milk   
yes, please   
sugar   
no, thanks   
here you are    
thanks   
hello. are you Mark Ryder    
yes. are you Allie    
yes, I am    
nice to meet you    
and you   
welcome to the UK    
your hotels in the city centre    
how far is it    
it's about 30 minutes if the traffic's okay    
great    
would you like a coffee first    
no, I'm fine, thanks    
all right, let's go    
my cars in the car park    
can I help you with your bags    
no, it's ok. thanks   
good evening sir    
hello. I have a reservation    
my name is Marc Ryder    
can you spell thatn, please    
r-y-d-e-r    
for five nights    
yes, that's right    
can I have your passport, please   
just a moment    
hey    
can you sign here, please   
do you're just smoking or non-smoking room   
non-smoking, please    
here's your key   
it's room 425 on the 4th floor    
very good   
Oh, where's the lift    
it's over there    
do you need help with your bags    
no, it's okay Thanks   
enjoy your stay mr. Ryder    
thank you   
where are you from in the United States, Mark    
the west coast San Francisco    
is it nice    
oh yeah. it's a great city    
are you from London    
no, I'm from Cambridge    
my family lived there, but I live here in London    
sorry    
hello darling. how are you   
I'm fine, yeah    
don't worry   
fine    
fine    
that's great    
bye, darling    
I love you   
sorry,    
that's okay. your wife    
no, no, my daughter    
she always phones me when I'm traveling    
how old is she    
she's nine    
she lives with her mother in Los Angeles   
we're divorced   
are you married    
no, I'm not   
[Music]   
no, I'm not   
How old are you   
that's very personal    
what do you think    
25 26 Thanks I'm 27   
how old are you    
I'm 34    
would you like another drink   
no, thanks    
I have to go now, Mark    
our first meetings at 10:00    
see you tomorrow   
see you tomorrow, Allie    
good night   
night   
can I help you    
what would you like    
a cappuccino, please   
regular ore large    
large, please    
and can I have an espresso, please   
to half here we'll take away    
to have here    
anything else    
no, thanks   
a brownie for me, please    
okay    
how much is that    
together or separate    
together   
that's 6.45, please    
sorry, how much    
6.45   
thank you    
thanks Mark   
you're welcome    
look there's, a free table over there   
oh    
I'm really sorry    
don't worry    
it's always the same    
when I wear white something like this always happens   
look    
first, I'll get you another coffee   
then, we can go shopping    
shopping    
yeah I want to buy you a new shirt    
you can't go to a meeting like that    
but we don't have time the next meetings at 12:30    
we have time. it's only 11:00    
are you sure    
yes   
sit down and relax    
let's have coffee and then go    
well, okay   
youtube.com/anhnguvips   
can I help you    
yes. what size is this shirt    
let's see    
a small    
what size do you want    
a medium    
this is a medium    
thanks   
where can I try it on    
the changing rooms are over there    
thank you   
how is it    
it's fine    
how much is this   
$34.99    
do you take American Express    
yes, sir    
thank you very much, Mark    
oh. you're welcome    
I'm really sorry about the caffee    
that's okay    
it's late. our meetings at 12:30    
we can take a taxi    
okay    
do you like the shirt   
well, yeah, it's exactly the same as the other one    
the same? is completely different    
sorry   
typical man    
Alli, can I ask you something   
yeah. what    
would you like to have dinner with me tonight    
tonight    
yeah. you see   
it's my birthday   
oh happy birthday    
I'm sorry I can't have dinner tonight    
I'm busy    
Oh   
how about Friday night    
Friday? well. okay   
do you know a good restaurant    
let me think    
do you like ItAlliean food    
I love it    
well, there's a new ItAlliean restaurant.    
we can go there.    
good idea   
taxi    
can I help you    
how much is that t-shirt    
it's 15.60    
sorry. how much did you say   
15.60    
and how much of those mugs    
the big mugs are 10.25    
and the small ones are 8.75    
can I have a big mug, please    
sure   
here you are   
anything else   
do you have birthday cards   
sorry. we've only got postcards    
oh, well, just the mug then    
that's ten twenty five   
have you got the 25    
oh. yes   
yeah. thanks    
thank you   
bye   
bye   
   
hi, Allie   
wow. you look great    
nice dress   
oh, thank you. this is for you   
for your birthday    
I bought you a little present    
oh. no.    
I hope it isn't broken   
it's a mug    
it was a mug    
thanks, Allie    
I don't believe it    
I'm sorry, Mark    
no problem    
it was really nice of you    
Ok. I'll get you another one tomorrow    
don't worry   
listen    
did you call a taxi to go to the restaurant    
no, I have my car outside    
come on. it's time to go    
I booked the table for 8:00    
and I'm not sure exactly where the restaurant is    
hey, Allie. relax. this isn't work.    
this is a night out    
sorry. I'm a bit stressed today    
okay. let's go   
excuse me    
where's King Street, please   
sorry. I don't know   
excuse me. is King Street near here    
King Street    
it's near here but I don't know exactly where. sorry    
thank you    
excuse me   
can you tell me the way to King Street   
yes. go straight on, go past the church   
and then turn left at the traffic lights   
and then I think it's the second on the right    
sorry, could you say that again   
please   
yes. go straight on, go past the church   
and then turn left at the traffic lights   
and then I think it's the second on the right    
thank you    
okay. it's this street   
no, it isn't    
I'm sure she said the first on the right    
no, she said the second on the right   
relax, Ally.    
look, let's ask that man there   
I don't think he knows. he's a tourist   
just ask him, please    
okay, okay. excuse me. we're lost   
do you know where King Street is    
sorry, I don't live here. I'm a tourist   
you see. I was right    
okay, let's try the second on the right    
here it is. King Street   
I knew she said the second on the right    
there's the restaurant, Donatella's    
can you see any way to park    
that's white cars going over there    
do you think you can park in that space    
are you saying I can't park    
Allie, I'm only joking    
okay, okay. I'm sorry   
good evening. do you have a reservation   
yes, a table for two    
my name is Allie Gray   
smoking or non-smoking    
non-smoking   
please    
come this way, please   
are you ready to order   
yes, I'd like the onion soup and then the steak, please    
the goat's cheese salad and the lasagna for me, please    
what would you like to drink   
would you like some wine    
no, thanks. just mineral water for me    
okay. a glass of red wine and a bottle of mineral water, please    
thank you, sir    
thank you    
how was the pasta   
it was delicious    
listen, Alliea. there's something I want to ask you    
yes. what   
would you like a dessert    
yes, please, what is there    
tiramisu, ice cream, or fruit salad    
fruit salad, please    
and you, sir   
nothing for me, thanks   
[Music]   
Ollie    
yes   
go on, Mark    
well, tomorrow's my last day   
and I think we. I mean, I really liked meeting you and    
here you are. fruit salad   
would you like any coffee    
yes, an espresso, please    
the same for me, please   
sorry, Mark    
do you want to come to California next month    
there's a big conference    
I'm gonna be there. why don't you come    
what do you think   
two espressos   
anything else. a little brandy. a grappa   
no, thank you   
what do you say, Ellie    
I'm not sure, Mark   
I need some time to think about it, okay   
all right. but please tell me before I go   
okay    
could we have the check, please   
sorry, the check    
the bill Mark. we're in Britain, remember    
sorry, could we have the bill, please    
yes, sir    
good morning, sir    
good morning   
can I have my bill, please. I'm checking out    
which room is it    
room 425    
did you have anything from the minibar last night    
yes, a mineral water    
here you are. how would you like to pay    
American Express   
thank you    
okay, can you sign here, please    
thank you    
would you like me to call a taxi for you    
no, thanks   
do you need any help with your luggage   
no, I'm fine, thanks    
have a good trip, mr. Ryder    
thank you. good bye    
good bye   
hello    
hi, Mark, its Allie    
I'm really sorry, but the traffic this morning is terrible   
I'm going to be very late    
okay    
I think the best thing is for you to take a taxi to the station.    
and then get the train to the airport   
no problem. I'll call the taxi   
well, thanks for everything    
no, listen. I'll meet you at the airport    
we can say goodbye there    
all right. where can we meet    
at the information desk    
okay, see you there   
bye    
excuse me, a change of plan    
could you call me a taxi, please   
to the station   
[Music]   
hello. sorry I can't take your call   
please leave a message after the tone    
hi, Allie, this is Mark    
where are you    
I'm at the information desk    
my flight leaves in 40 minutes    
Mark. Mark. sorry, I'm late   
don't worry. I'm just happy you got here   
come on, you're gonna miss your flight   
wait a minute    
are you gonna come to the conference in California    
am I gonna see you again    
the plan's going to leave without you   
Allie    
I asked my boss this morning and he said yes    
I can go    
great. I don't have your home phone number   
don't worry. I'll email it to you tomorrow    
this is the final call.. for all passengers on flight ba 287 to San Francisco    
please proceed immediately to gate 12   
goodbye, Allie. and thanks for everything   
goodbye, Mark   
have a safe trip    
see in California   
[Music]   
good evening ma'am    
good evening    
where are you arriving from    
from London    
what's the purpose of your visit    
business    
I'm here for a conference    
how long are you staying in the US    
a week    
where are you staying in San Francisco    
at the Pacific View Hotel    
do you know anybody here    
yes, Mark Ryder    
is he family or a friend    
he's a colleague and a friend    
do you have his phone number   
yes, his mobile is 4056557182    
is this your first visit to the US    
yes, it is   
enjoy your stay in San Francisco    
Thank You    
Allie, hi    
hi, Mark    
you look great   
you, too    
how are you    
I'm fine. how was the flight   
long. 11 hours    
oh you must be really tired    
yes, I couldn't sleep at all. the people next to me had a baby with them   
oh. what's the time here    
I need to change my watch    
it's 7:00 in the evening    
it's 3:00 in the morning for me    
okay. I'm gonna take you right to the hotel and you can rest    
fine, hmm, sorry    
you are gonna love San Francisco    
I'm so pleased you came    
me, too    
it's great to see you again    
come on my car's in the parking lot    
let's go    
good evening, ma'am    
how can I help you   
good evening, I have a reservation    
my name's Allison Gray   
I'm here for the MTC conference    
just a moment    
uh. here it is miss Gray. for six nights    
that's right   
okay miss Gray    
here's your key. you're in room 419 on the 4th floor    
thank you   
what time's breakfast    
from 7:00 to 9:00 in the pavilion restaurant on the sixth floor    
Thanks    
where's the lift    
the elevators are over there    
Thanks do you need any help with your bag   
yes, please   
hello, reception    
hello this is room 419    
how can I help you   
I have a problem with the air conditioning    
it isn't working and it's very hot in my room    
I'm sorry, ma'am    
I'll send someone up to look at it right now   
thank you   
room server. how can I help you    
hello, this is room 419   
can I have a tuna sandwich, please   
whole wheat or white bread    
whole wheat, please    
without milk    
without    
french fries or salad    
salad, please    
anything drink    
yes    
a diet coke    
with ice and lemon    
just ice   
I'll be there in five minutes, ma'am   
thank you   
here you go Allie, a cappuccino see I remembered    
well done   
Thanks    
did you sleep well    
yes, very well   
how are things    
they're fine   
what are the plans for the week    
well. today we don't have any free time    
but tomorrow I'm going to take you to this great little restaurant    
I know that sounds good    
and then on Wednesday night, there's a cocktail party here at the hotel    
and then a conference dinner on Thursday    
is there anything special you want to do    
well, I'd like to see the bay and the Golden Gate Bridge    
and I'd like to go shopping this time    
Hi Mark, how are you doing   
Hi Brad. I'm fine. just fine    
aren't you going to introduce me    
oh. sure. Allie, this is Brad Martin. Brad works in the Los Angeles office    
Brad, this is Allie Gray from the London office    
hello.    
hi, Allie, great to meet you    
Mark told me you were very nice,    
but he didn't tell me you were so beautiful    
so, is this your first time in San Francisco    
yes, yes, it is    
has Mark show you this site   
well, not yet.    
then maybe I can show you around I love this city    
Allie, it's time to go excuses, Brad    
well, great to meet you Allie   
I'll see you around    
yes, nice to meet you, too    
goodbye    
bye   
are you ready to order    
yes, to start a tomato and mozzarella salad    
is that right    
yes    
and the mushroom soup for me    
and for your main course    
I'll have the fried chicken    
with french fries or a baked potato    
a baked potato, please   
and for you, sir    
and I'd like the steak with french fries    
how do you like your steak    
rare, medium, well-done    
rare, please   
and to drink    
could you bring us the wine list, please   
chicken for you, ma'am    
and steak for you, sir    
I'm sorry, but I asked for a baked potato not fries    
no problem   
I'll change it   
excuse me    
yes, sir   
I asked for my steak rare and this is well-done    
I'm very sorry    
I'll send it back to the kitchen    
could we have the check, please    
yes sir   
your check    
Thanks    
excuse me. I think there's a mistake in the check    
we only had two glasses of wine, not a bottle    
yes, you're right   
I'm very sorry. it's not my day today   
I'll get you a new check    
thank you    
your check sir   
Thanks    
thank you.    
thank you Mark. that was a lovely dinner   
I'm glad you enjoyed it   
how's your daughter    
Jennifer. she's fine.    
she's with her mother in Los Angeles   
Mark    
yeah    
can I ask you something? something personal    
sure, what    
how long were you married    
three years    
why did you break up    
there were a lot of reasons.    
we were very young when we had Jennifer.    
we were both working very hard.    
we didn't spend much time together    
the usual story.    
what about you, Ellie    
well, there was someone.    
I met him when I was at university. we were together for two years    
we broke up    
why    
I don't know    
usual story   
thank you    
listen    
oh, it's early. it's only 9 o'clock   
shall we go for a walk    
good idea    
where should we go    
there's a place called Fisherman's Wharf   
it's right on the bay   
there are a lot of cafes and bars    
we could have another cup of coffee   
fine, let's go   
good morning ma'am. how can I help you   
I want to go shopping    
where's the best place to go    
well, all the big department stores are around Union Square   
can you tell me how to get there    
yes, of course.   
go out of the hotel and turn left    
go straight ahead down Sutter Street, turn left at Stockton   
it's the third street on the left    
Union Square will be right in front of you    
you can't miss it   
Thanks    
can you recommend a good Museum   
well SF MoMA is fantastic    
sorry. where did you say    
SF MoMA, the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art    
where is it    
on 3rd Street    
how far is it from Union Square   
not far    
it's just a couple of blocks    
can I walk from there    
sure, it'll take you 10 minutes    
can you show me on the map    
yes.    
Union Square is here    
and the museum is here    
from Union Square you go down Geary    
to the end and turn right    
that's 3rd street, go down 3rd and you'll see SFMOMA on the left    
what time does it open    
it opens at 11:00   
thanks very much    
have a good day    
I'm sure you'll love the museum   
oh... Where is it   
excuse me, can you tell me the way to Union Square    
hey, don't I know you   
I don't think so    
Allie    
I'm Brad. Brad Martin from the Los Angeles office   
I'm Marc's friend. remember    
we met yesterday at the hotel    
oh. yes. that's right, Brad    
I'm so sorry    
no problem    
what are you doing here    
I want to go shopping   
I'm looking for Union Square    
but I'm lost   
where's Mark    
he's at the hotel. he had a meeting    
I think    
listen, Allie    
I'm going to take you for a cup of coffee at Delmonico's   
they have the best coffee in San Francisco and amazing cookies    
and I will walk with you to Union Square    
wow, that's really kind of you. are you sure   
absolutely. it's my pleasure    
okay, great   
I'm awful with new cities    
I always get lost    
oh. I love your British accent    
can I help you    
yes, I really like this sweater    
do you have it in a medium    
let's see    
we have it in red in a medium    
no, I want it in black    
just a minute   
I'll go and check    
here you are a black medium    
do you want to try it on   
no thanks. I'm sure it'll be fine    
how much is it    
43 38   
oh. it says $39.99    
yes, but that doesn't include sales tax    
that's 8.5% extra    
oh, okay   
do you take MasterCard    
yes, of course   
can I help you    
yes, I bought this sweater about half an hour ago    
yes, I remember. is there a problem    
yes, I've decided it's too big for me    
what size is it medium    
so you need a small    
I don't see one here    
do you have any more    
I'll go and check just a minute    
I'm sorry but we don't have another one in black    
oh, dear,    
we can order one for you    
it'll only take a few days    
no, I'm leaving on Saturday    
would you like to exchange it for something else   
not really    
could I have a refund    
no problem. do you have the receipt    
yes, here you are   
Allie, you look great as usual    
how was your morning    
really good. first I went shopping, then I went to the Museum of Modern Art    
what did you think of it    
it was wonderful, but I didn't have enough time to see it all   
never mind    
maybe next time    
what a lovely evening   
hi, Allie. Oh how's the shopping    
great, thanks   
am I    
and did you like the museum    
I hope you didn't get lost again    
hey, I didn't know you two were friends already    
we met this morning    
I got lost    
I was trying to find Union Square    
and suddenly Brad appeared    
so I took her to my favorite coffee shop    
Allie, what would you like to drink    
I'd like a cocktail, please    
a margarita   
what a good idea. I'll have one, too    
Mark, could you get us a couple of margaritas    
so now, I'm the waiter    
am I    
so... tell me about the museum, Allie    
what was your favorite painting   
hi, how can I help you    
do you have any painkillers    
I have a headache    
I'm sorry we can't give our guests medicine, but we can call a doctor for you if you like    
no, it's okay. I don't need a doctor    
it's just a cold, but is there a chemist's near the hotel   
do you mean a pharmacy    
sorry, that's right a pharmacy    
sure. there's one right across the street   
thank you.    
you're welcome   
good morning    
can I help you    
I have a bad cold. do you have something I can take    
what symptoms do you have    
I have a headache and a cough    
do you have a temperature    
no, I don't think so   
does your back hurt    
no    
are you allergic to any drugs    
I'm allergic to penicillin   
no problem   
these are aspirin    
these'll make you feel better    
how many do I have to take    
to every four hours    
sorry how often    
every four hours. if you don't feel better in 24 hours you should see a doctor    
okay, thanks. how much are they    
4 75, please    
thank you   
bless you. are you okay    
it's just a cold    
I had a bad headache this morning   
but I feel better now   
listen, I'm really sorry about last night   
what do you mean    
at the party    
I got kind of angry at Brad    
he was really annoying me    
oh, I think he's very nice    
yeah, women always think so   
don't worry Mark    
Brad's not my type    
so what is your type, Allie   
you know, what my type is...    
dark hair, 34 years old, lives in San Francisco    
listen, tomorrow's your last day    
I want to do something special. what would you like to do    
I don't mind. you choose how about a boat trip around the bay    
we could do that in the morning   
and then have nice dinner in the evening   
that sounds fantastic    
it's too bad. you can't stay longer    
yes, it's a pity. this week is gone so quickly    
I feel I've just arrived and now    
I'm going home well    
I'm gonna make sure tomorrow is a really special day   
hi, Allie. how you feeling today   
much better    
oh good are you going to be warm enough for just that sweater it might be a little cold on the boat    
I'll be fine are we going to walk to the bay    
you know it's too far it's better    
if we get a cab how long does it take my cabin about ten minutes and how long is the boat trip   
I'm not sure. I think it's an hour    
why well I have to be back here by 1:00    
I'm expecting an important phone call not from Brad    
I hope well actually no of course not from the New York office   
okay let's come   
good morning    
good morning, sir.    
what time does the next boat leave    
at 10 o'clock   
how long does it take    
about an hour and   
where exactly does the boat go it goes under the bridge around Angel Island    
and pass Alcatraz and then back here can we get anything to eat or drink on the boat   
yes, ma'am. there's a snack bar    
can I have two tickets, please   
sure two adults how much is that    
that's $40 there you are    
thank you, sir   
thank you   
so what do you think of San Francisco   
it's beautiful Mark. I love it better than London not better different    
do you think you could live here    
no, I don't think so   
no, why    
well, it's a long way from London   
I think I'd miss all my family and friends could you live somewhere else   
but in Europe maybe why'd you ask   
oh, no reason I just wondered on your left you can see the island of Alcatraz   
look can you see that building that used to be the prison but it was closed in 1963 it's a museum now where are we going for dinner tonight it's a surprise   
oh, I'm really looking forward to it me too    
oh, I'm cold do you want to borrow my coat no it's okay   
I'm gonna miss you mom hey excuse me could you take a photo of us please sure   
are you ready ready say cheese   
good afternoon. how can I help you   
hi, I'm leaving tomorrow morning very early could you prepare my bill so I can pay this evening of course and could you order me a cab for what time my flights   
at 9:15 so I have to be at the airport   
at 7:15 then you'll need a cab    
at 6 o'clock I'll order one for you    
thanks Owen has there been a phone call for me   
oh, yes, there's a message for you can you call this number in New York right   
thanks    
you're welcome    
hello is that MTC   
sorry, oh, sorry. MTC New York how can I help you    
hello can I speak to Lisa Formosa    
please just a moment    
I'll put you through   
hello, hi, is that Lisa    
no, I'm sorry she's not at her desk right now    
can I leave a message    
please, sure, tell her Allie Gray called    
I'll call back in five minutes   
MTC New York how can I help you    
hello. can I speak to Lisa Formosa, please    
just a moment. I'm sorry the lines busy do you want home    
okay I'll hold    
hello, hi Lisa its Allie Gray    
great great well is it good   
news or bad news    
it's good you've got the job in Paris    
Oh wonderful that's fantastic thanks for everything   
I've had a great time here cheers to us   
Allie we need to talk about the future   
right    
I mean about our future yes Allie    
I really think we have a future together   
I'm serious   
so my Mark but the problem is you live here and I live in London we're 6,000 miles apart maybe that's not going to be a problem    
I have something to tell you   
we're not gonna be 6,000 miles apart   
we're only gonna be 300 miles apart   
what do you mean you know the new MTC office its opening in Paris next month   
yes, well. I'm going there. I'm gonna be the Marketing manager isn't that amazing   
I'll only be an hour away from you   
you're joking    
no, I'm serious   
what's the matter aren't you pleased you don't look very happy yes, I am happy   
it's amazing    
but I have something to tell you too    
no, I'm going to the Paris office too    
I've just heard that was the phone call    
I was waiting for    
I don't believe it   
that's wonderful we'll be together    
yes but there's just one little thing Marc   
what's that I'm going to be the director in Paris    
I'm going to be your boss   
[Music]   
hi, I'm Mark writer ah you're the new Marketing director that's right   
I'm Nicole de Lacroix    
I'm Allie's personal assistant welcome to Paris   
thank you. I'll just tell Allie you're here   
Allie, Marc Riders here    
okay you're from San Francisco aren't you    
yes, I am. hello, Marc    
Ellie it's good to see you again    
how are you    
very well did you have a good journey    
yes, fine, no problems, let me introduce you to the team   
you've met Nicole my personal assistant   
yes, we've said hello this is Jack la Mettrie our PR director   
how do you do   
Marc writer    
how do you do    
and this has been    
what's our designer    
hi Marc great to meet you Ben    
we've heard a lot about you really   
oh, good. I hope ok should we go to my office   
what a lovely view the rivers beautiful   
isn't it Paris is so romantic    
I can't believe we're here together at last    
yes it's weird weird it's wonderful    
I really missed you me too   
why don't we sit down   
so did you like the office    
yes it's great how do you get on with everyone   
okay but we'll see I've only been here   
three weeks what did you think of them   
oh I thought shock was very nice and Nicole what about Nicole she was very friendly you know we have to keep things   
a secret   
what Thanks you know us our relationship   
I don't want the people in the office to know we're together   
of course not but it isn't going to be   
easy no, it isn't how's the hotel well   
it's okay I guess but it's not like having my own place    
I have to find an apartment don't worry it won't take you long   
what are you thinking do you really want to know I was wondering what kind of boss you'll be well you'll find out tomorrow   
Mack would you mind sending me those concept dates of course not Ben are you busy me never could you help me    
I can't open this document    
sure    
Thanks hi Nicole could you sign these   
please sure   
is it okay if I take tomorrow afternoon   
off I'm sorry but tomorrow is really difficult   
what about finally afternoon Friday   
that's fine. do you think you could send me the request by email    
yes of course   
hello    
hi Mark.    
could you hold a moment, Mark    
Thank You Nicole can you come and   
see me when you have a moment   
have you started looking for an apartment    
no, I haven't had time yet   
anyway it's supposed to get to know Paris first    
yeah. it's a big city yeah   
now see mousey merci beaucoup   
very good Mack    
Thanks, that's nearly all the French    
I know I be at least    
yeah just a minute sorry   
how would you ideal fee oh it's great   
and the people really friendly    
I like Ben a lot he's amazing with computers and jocks a really nice guy boys IQs   
belly tummy   
everybody likes him and he has a lovely wife    
she used to be a pop star    
when she was young have you heard of Isabel    
no I'm sorry I haven't    
she's very pretty   
Allie is very attractive to Allie    
yeah I guess although her clothes are very English and she's very formal you know    
today I asked her if I could have a day off    
and she wanted me to send her an email   
well the English have their funny ways   
oh. hi, Ellie    
hi    
let me get you drinking   
Thanks I'll have a diet coke   
where exactly is it   
I'm sorry I didn't catch that okay how far is it okay    
okay Missy Oh what any luck   
I think I found an apartment how do I get to Belleville the easiest way is to get the Metro at pyramids take line fourteen and change at Chatelain okay   
then take line eleven towards    
Mary Delilah where do I get off at Dell Villa   
and how many stops is it    
six I think    
oh right. I found it on the map how long does it take to get there about that's   
an hour   
have you found a flat    
yeah in Belleville   
this time when are you going to see it   
this afternoon if you can wait till 6:00   
I'll give you a lift   
I live near Belleville so I'm driving that way that's great   
Thanks    
thank you   
[Applause]   
this is the apartment visit a just rather    
merci Madame    
sorry Nicole what did she say    
she said we can have a look at the flat she's going to wait downstairs    
Thanks   
so what do you think it's a long way from the station and it's on the fourth floor   
it's a pity there isn't a lift    
who needs one the stairs are good exercise   
look there's a great view from here    
it's also very noisy sure but it has character   
it's just how I imagined an apartment in   
Paris everything's old including the heating it would be very cold in the hotel   
oh, hi, well. what's it like nice really   
Parisian are you going to take it    
I think so yeah I can't wait to see it   
yeah, are you okay are you on your own no   
I'm with the woman who owns the apartment    
I'll call you back    
okay, speak later love you.    
love you too   
bye, sorry about that    
that was, that was my, my daughter calling from America    
you know she's just taking an interest taking an interest that's nice   
I got a message this morning it's from Jacques Allie    
its jack I'm in Rome my   
return flights been canceled    
there's a small problem   
Scarlet's Cappy no is in Paris for her concerts of this evening   
I was going to look after her today could you possibly take care of her thank you and see you later   
you've met Scarlett scarpino    
haven't you been the punk princess yeah    
I met her in London last year    
what's she like let's say she's a bit difficult    
what are we going to do with her    
why don't you show her around Paris I have a better idea   
why don't you show her around Paris    
what me I'm new here you can't leave me to do   
this on my own    
okay, why don't we take it a no-trade    
um. I mean it's her first time in Paris    
isn't it I don't think churches are really her thing how about taking her on a boat trip brilliant    
and then we can go up the Eiffel Tower    
that's a good idea    
I'm sure she'll love the view and she might fall off thanks for your help   
Ben shall we have lunch after that    
let's go somewhere really nice do you have any ecommendations Ben what about la renascence as sharks favorite that sounds perfect   
Ben do you want to come to you    
sorry Allie I'm really busy but I'm sure   
you'll have an unforgettable meal so Scarlett what would you like nothing   
aren't you hungry sure but this foods   
really horrible this is one of the finest restaurants in Paris   
well I can't eat this stuff    
I never touch meat the seafood looks good hey fish have feelings too what about the   
mushroom risotto mushrooms no way   
didn't they tell you guys about my allergies    
I'm allergic to mushrooms, strawberries, nuts   
shall we go someplace else whatever I'm going to the restroom   
well that was a disastrous morning the boat trip made her feel sick    
and she wouldn't go up the Eiffel Tower    
I can't stand Heights it's a pity    
we didn't just take her shopping she's so spoiled   
oh come on she's just a kid really so    
what are we going to do about lunch   
shall we leave now no hang on    
I have an idea let me talk to the waiter Monsieur   
do you think you could possibly do me a favor    
yes of course, so would you like well I think this place is great more wine alley    
no thanks   
what's this it's your lunch scarlet, but I didn't order anything   
hey pizza margherita cool that was a great concert last night scarlet Thanks   
as we know Scarlett's got a new CD coming out soon so let's have a look at the best way we can promote it in France   
okay. well. I think scarlet should visit the major music stores in my opinion   
that's the best way to meet her fans    
I'm not so sure what do you think jack actually I don't agree with Mark scarlet   
isn't commercial in that way scarlet    
scarlet I agree with Jacques    
I don't have a commercial image it isn't   
my style okay but scarlet needs more publicity    
what about a series of TV and radio interviews    
don't you agree   
yes, well. that's what everybody does    
what we want is something different personally    
I think scarlet should tour clubs and summer festivals    
she can DJ play her favorite music play the new CD and meet her fans too    
yes, absolutely   
that's a much better idea   
Mark, okay, why not   
scarlet I think that's a great idea Thank You doc it's   
great to be on my own again    
yeah that's the first time you've been to the loo   
uh-huh   
what's the matter is this about the meeting because I agree to the Jack and not with you    
yeah, well we knew it wouldn't be easy working together    
I mean it's difficult for me as well but if I don't agree with you    
I know, I know, you're the boss and I have to do my job   
I really thought that Jack's idea was better    
and so did Scarlett it's not a big deal Allie    
I'm fine really so who exactly was the Mona Lisa    
I'm not sure. I think she was the wife of a banker    
it's that way she's smiling because her husband has a good salary I   
also read somewhere that she was a self-portrait of Leonardo    
a self-portrait you're kidding   
now I don't know much about art but Leonardo da Vinci was a man right well   
it's just a theory why do you think she's smiling well in my opinion    
she's the managing director of a music company   
what she lives in Paris    
she's in love with her Marketing director    
and she has a lot of fun telling him what to do    
that's really unfair   
hey we're not in the office    
now you can't tell me    
I'm wrong let's get a coffee    
good idea   
don't turn around. what is it. I've just seen Ben from the office   
yeah, I said don't look. I don't think   
he's seen us    
let's get out of here come on    
oh yeah you'll never guess who I saw on Saturday no Allie and Mark in the Louvre together    
really you're joking    
it was definitely then and they looked really close    
I think they were holding hands    
no, I don't believe it    
it's true   
I'm telling you and I think they saw me   
because they turned and left really quickly    
are you serious   
you know. I'm not surprised   
I think they've been seeing each other ever since Mac arrived Oh   
maybe even before    
that's incredible   
what makes you say that when I wait to look at Marks new apartment    
I'm sure Allie called em on his mobile    
and I've seen her looking at him a often away Hey   
quiet everyone   
it's Mark   
dear all please find attached a copy of the latest sales report from the USA   
Mark so did you guys have a good weekend   
yes, fine not bad very quiet    
what about you muck    
oh, I spent most of the time at home just being domestic you know the apartments looking pretty nice    
now you must come around for a meal one evening   
that would be very nice so didn't you go out at all    
oh sure I went to the Louvre on Saturday    
I felt like getting a bit of culture on your own    
yeah I kind of prefer going to museums and galleries on my own   
you can look at everything at your own pace    
that's funny I went to the Louvre on Saturday - really I didn't see you, but it's a big place    
I didn't see you either   
I just had an email family so have I me too    
dear Mark thank you for the information and thank you darling for a wonderful weekend Allie   
Mark Ryder, sure   
thanks for the sales report    
I think there's something more important to talk about right now    
what do you mean that message you sent me you hit reply to all you sent it to everyone in the office    
oh, no. you're joking   
Oh, Mark. I'm so sorry. I did it without thinking    
it's all right Allie    
it's an easy mistake to make how could I be so stupid   
I just wasn't concentrating Ally    
I'm really sorry don't worry about it it   
doesn't matter but I think we should talk to the others    
yes you right I'll do it it was my fault listen everybody   
I just want to say that I'm terribly    
sorry I haven't been honest with you    
we Mark and I well that's okay Ellie we had already guessed it wasn't really a surprise   
I still can't work out how they knew about us    
I was always really careful    
not to treat you differently   
you were really hard on me Mark    
I wasn't    
oh you were just being fair and very British so if it wasn't me it must have been you what I've got my own office   
you're with them all the time you must have said something you're hopeless at keeping secrets   
don't blame me this wasn't my fault they probably just guess   
how you know the French they're experts on love affairs   
maybe actually I think it's great that everyone knows now we don't have to pretend anymore   
yeah, that's true Allie there's something   
I've been wanting to ask you for a long   
time    
I just haven't said anything but it's now or never   
Allie   
sorry, Marker didn't hear a word you said   
I said will you marry me is that a yes   
yes can you confirm that an email for me   
just don't send it to everyone in the office this time   
hi there welcome to the IPS TV today   
we're going to 30 about spelling Pat two spots out okay there are four patterns   
for this one we met remember chicken or teacher    
okay, usually I think for about 80 or 90 percent    
when you see CH together it will be pronounced like okay   
so cheap cheap this one teacher    
teacher which which okay    
remember th cheap cheap   
teacher teacher   
   
   
